Our project is going to investigate the effect that family size/household size and composition has on family income of the householder, using data from the United States. This research is important because it pertains to issues of poverty and increasing family size in America. According to an article from the Pew Research Center from 2019, the average household size is increasing for the first time in over a century. This increase could be due to a number of factors, including an increase in the portion of multigenerational households and a rising incidence of shared households in the wake of the Great Recession. Regardless of the cause, the article acknowledges that changes in the average American household has “implications for national economic growth,” (Fry, 2019).  The question of economic implications of household size is extremely salient given current issues regarding government aid and childhood poverty. According to a 2023 article from National Public Radio, in the year since pandemic benefits ran out, the childhood poverty rate has jumped from 5.2% to an alarming 12.4%. Historically, policies pertaining to reducing childhood poverty have focused on children’s immediate needs such as nutritional assistance and housing support. If we were to find that there is significant statistical evidence that family size has an effect on the economic status of families, there might be potential for policymakers to investigate interventions such as educational programs on family planning and managing finances in a shared or multigenerational household. Furthermore, learning more about household size and its economic impact may provide some insight into how the government distributes federal aid. A current event that is of particular importance to college students is the recent changes to the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). In a large effort to simplify the application, the FAFSA will no longer take into account students’ family members who are in college, stating, “The number of family members in college is no longer a factor in the need analysis.” This change puts those who are in larger families in a difficult situation when qualifying for and receiving aid. If we were able to demonstrate that family size does indeed have an impact on economic status, perhaps policymakers would feel more inclined to make family size a larger consideration in the distribution of federal aid. 
